http://tei.it.ox.ac.uk/tcp/Texts-HTML/free/A20/A20313.html !Oxford Edited XML!
LN 0005 *. The aucthor in this his firste beginnyng, sheweth that GOD was the onely cause, whiche moued hym to write and set out this his woorkes, helpyng and fauourably sup∣portyng hym in the same, who beyng o∣therwise insufficient, and not able of hym self to doe the same, but by the goodnesse and furtheraunce of God, yeldeth to hym due honor therefore.
LN 0047 *. Forraine Princes, Nations and Countries, can witnesse of the honourable estate and Royaltie of the kynges of Englande since the tyme it was enhabited.
LN 0054 *. Probations.
LN 0055 *. Prince Arthure is here brought forth as an vnreprobable te∣stes (beyng as it wer) a moste famous Ri∣uer that watereth the face of ye whole earth, with the streames of his immortall fame and renowne.
LN 0073 *. The honour of king Arthure his Actes, manhode, conquestes Magnanimitie, Chi∣ualrie, and what els, in chronicles are suf∣ficiently set out, to the greate comforte and consolatiō of all Bri∣tishe and Englishe mennes hartes.
LN 0101 *. King Hēry the secōd as Chronicles record for wisedome, know∣ledge, and iudgement was holden famous throughout the world in so muche as Emperours, (namely the Emperour of Rome, and of Constantinople) hearing of his notable wisedome, sent by their Ambassadors to haue his resolution & iudgement in great matters of strife and contētion. Read more of this Kynges glorie his wealth and possess•ons in maister Foxes Ecclesiasticall historie, I meane the Actes and monumentes.
LN 0119 *. He sheweth the cause why kyng Henry was had in suche honour and greate admiratiō
LN 0145 *. The Scepter of the noble Relame of Englande, daiely more & more encreased in honor and fame, beeyng as the Sunne in the firmament of heauen, that casteth ye beames of his shine vnto the vttermoste partes of the worlde, so that nothyng might bee hid from the heate and presence thereof.
LN 0167 *. Prince Edward the third is here a noble testimony, to approue the aboue saied allegation, beeyng in his tyme moste excellent on yearth, as in Chronicles is reported.
LN 0179 *. Kyng Edward not abiding the mallepartnesse of the dronken Pope of Rome, which needes would bee a stickler twixt him and the Frenche Kyng, standes at defiaunce bothe with Frenche Kyng and Pope, and offereth to fight hand to hande with them bothe, whiche when the Pope vnderstan∣deth, like a Coward, or rather like a snaile in a shell, draweth in his hornes, for feare of a broken Costerd, and quietly suffereth this noble Kyng Ed∣ward accordyng his pleasure, to execute the force of his sword against his aduersa∣rie, whiche braue exā∣ple if al other kynges would followe & imitate, the beaste would beware how he entermedled with Princes matters, impertinent to his callyng.
LN 0221 *. Kyng Edward hauyng long ruled the scepter of his Kyngdome with glorie and greate honor, resigned the same vp to his successours, who also augmente the fame thereof, and in his posteritie is more excellente then his antecessours, as in the tradations of histories is at large discussed.
LN 0259 *. Though sonderie of Kyng Edwardes suc∣cessours deserued immortal renowme, whō seuerally I omitted here to entreate of, yet emongest them all, one of late memorie I thought fit for proofe and argumentes sake to set forthe as an vndoubted paterne of all Nobilitie, whiche is meant of Kyng Henry the eight.
LN 0265 *. The onely looke and countenance of Kyng Henry the eight, was sufficiēt to discomfort an hoste of menne.
LN 0269 *. Kyng Henry beyng at warre with the Frēch retaines the Emperour to serue vnder his standred, and ther withall makes his foes to taste bitterly of the rod of his cor∣rection, for his Maiestie would not abide to be dallied withall. 
LN 0281 *. Kyng Henry waiyng with hym self, what a miserable plague it was for hym self, his people and kingdome, to be subiect vnto the Pope of Rome (that presumpteous Prelate to the admiratiō of all the worlde, vnhorseth the Pope, and makes him go on fote (wt a mischeef) where as before he spared not to ride in the neckes of Christan Emperours and Kynges farre better then hym self. (So couragious was ye excellent king) as therin he enterprised that whiche all the potentates of ye world durst not attempt besides.
LN 0285 *. Kyng Henry waiyng with hym self, what a miserable plague it was for hym self, his people and kingdome, to be subiect vnto the Pope of Rome (that presumpteous Prelate to the admiratiō of all the worlde, vn∣horseth the Pope, and makes him go on fote (wt a mischeef) where as before he spared not to ride in the neckes of Christan Emperours and Kynges farre better then hym self. (So couragious was ye excellent king) as therin he enterprised that whiche all the potentates of ye world durst not attempt besides.
LN 0298 * The honour of Kyng Henry is triple au∣gmēted in his succes∣sors (especially in the gouernement of our gracious and Soueraigne Ladie the quenes moste excellente maiestie) who not one¦ly hath continued in ye course of her Father, by suppressyng ye pope but wt more seueritie hath holden his nose doune to the grindestone, as by continual grindyng it is almost worne out to the gristle and bare stumps. The honour of our good Queene in her excellencie is here in published. <P> Queene Elizabethes sacred arme, as ye pope saieth, hath giuen him such a cut ouerthwart his Monkishe visnamie, that he is in dout whether he shall euer be able to be cured of the wounde, his Car∣dinalles are vtterly discōforted, his Chiturgians haue giuen hym ouer as all his doctours doe doubt. The great care of her maiestie is euer in sekyng out the waie by whiche she maie go∣uerne her people and coūtrie wt al godlines trāquillite and peace. The life and blood of her Maiestie (whiche GOD for his mercie preserue & maintain) is not to deare in her Graces sight, for the preseruation of her people and Countrie, but that she would if occasion serued (as God forbid that wee should see that daie to be so distressed) bothe venter an hazarde for defēce of the same for whiche God be• prai∣sed, and her Maiestie honoured (a singuler token of a most godly and christian prince.) The aucthor stirreth vp all Christian people and true subiectes to giue forthe a signe of their hartie good will, and loue towardes her sacred Maiestie, by adding) Amen) to that whiche he be∣fore praied for. <P> Here the aucthour exhorteth al estates and degrees of menne to praie for the prosperitie of her Grace, that God would be on her right hande, continually giuyng good successe to all her highnesse enterprises, (that she with vs her loyall and obedient subiectes, and we with her our right dread and soueraigne Queene, the true anoynted of the Lorde) maie raigne, and liue together in all peace and godlinesse, to the honour and glorie of God for euer.
LN 0353 * In all our petitions, actiō•, and requestes, wee muste referre the successe euer to the good will & pleasure of God. <P> The cause why wee should yeeld our will to Gods will is, because he is euen still ye self same thyng that neuer chaungeth nor alters his entent or purpose, established in his secret counsell, but as he doeth & hath purposed, so also in tyme conuenient doeth likewise accomplishe by whiche we may perceiue his excellent puritie.
LN 0379 *. This is a portion of that whiche in the beginnyng was alledged, where it is saied, that God was ye cause principall, whereby the mynde of the aucthor was mightely enflamed to write some pleasant Historie, but wiste not what, till at length by the self same cause he was enstructed and taught what he should write, as more fullie hereafter to set doune.
LN 0385 *. The aucthour is not ashamed to acknowe∣ledge his imbecillitie, of hym self vnable to bring to passe any notable exploite, saue onely that he depēdeth on Gods direction to fluishe the thyng his goodnesse shall begin. 
LN 0395 *. Better to bee meere ignorant, then to bee ouer skilfull to the hurt of other.
LN 0405 *. Meanyng not acquainted in the science of Usurie, whereby he might haue had good occasion and matter to write of.
LN 0409 *. The aucthour still procedyng on in the discription of his imperfectiō, and hauyng felt the ground of his knowledge, seing him self to bee altogether vnfurnished of that, which in historiographers is required (doth as it) were aske a question, how it wer possible for hym to accōplish the thing he gladly desired, wherevnto he makes aunswere, alledgyng though in his owne eyes he seemed insufficient, yet God who gouerneth all thynges, bids hym but adde to his good will, & he would further hym in the reste.
LN 0433 *. Three principal thinges are to be retained of euery Chronicler & writer of Histories, (that is to saie) Inuentiō, Memorie, and pleasant Conueiance without whiche, what soeuer a man doeth is altogether vnsauerie.
LN 0443 *. The aucthour at last through many daies trauail, obtaineth the Porte and Hauen of reste, where his three foresaid companions Inuention, Memorie and Conueighaunce, consultyng together, agree and conculde that he should entre•t vpon the Irishe soile and inhabitauntes of the same, with the fertilitie of the ground.
LN 0455 *. Marke the preparation made for the aucthour, leste peraduenture he might relate ought amisse, and so by false discouerie of thynges therein contained, roune in danger of reprofe, wherevnto the nature of the Cauiller is passyngly addicted.
LN 0466 *. By these flo•wyng stremes are ment, the goodlie Hauens and Riuers through euery parte of Irelande, most famous for marchantes, in whiche riuers also are store, change, and choise of all fine and delicate fishes, and that in most abondant sort, a notable pleasure and necessarie cōmoditie for a cōmon wealthe, and this is the firste parte cōcernyng the waters
LN 0483 *. As the Riuers of Irelande are notable famous for the varietie of all maner of fisshes, giuen in moste plentifull maner, so is the lande farre more renowmed for her situation, pleasant ayre operation, and goodly store of all maner of cattell behofefull for the lande, and for all kinde of wildfoule for pleasure and profite of man, as in the discourse thereof shall spedely be set out.
LN 0495 *. The discription of the woodes of Irelande.
LN 0503 *. The discouery of the Irish Nimphes, their pleasures, pastymes, and accustomable vsages, wherein daiely thei are occupied, are ••guratiuely expressed.
LN 0527 *. This doe expounde the true meanyng of the rest that went before.
LN 0537 *. These Nimphes deserues eternal memorie for their holy conuersation: yea, though it were but with Asmodious the Deuil of hell: For pitie it were if thei should not bee remembred somwhere and since thei are not thought vpon in heauen, giue them leaue to bee had in memorie in hell.
LN 0545 *. The cause why these Nimphes are worthy of suche remembrance is becaus• of ye greate paine and labour thei tooke in the lande in bryngyng forth fruite after their kinde.
LN 0555 *. The generation of these wood Nimphes are in their kind more craftier then ye Foxes more frettyng then Bores, and terribler thā Beares, working by secret conspiracies the subuersion, ruine, and destruction of the hurtlesse creatures of the lande.
LN 0567 *. The Aucthour seing the greate inconueniences that happen daily by the retaining of suche a pestiferous generation, giueth counsell to all those that loue their owne saftie and securitie to ridde their handes of them, least retainyng and still maintaining them they doe but foster a wolfe, and cherishe a sarpent, which are redy daily both to deuoure, and destroye them.
LN 0583 *. The aucthour continuing in his exhortation thereby to driue it more deper into the hartes of men bringeth forth a similitude of a tode and a crocadill, signifiyng that it is all one equall securitie for a mā to sleepe with all those poysonyng wormes, as it is to keepe about hym those members before specified, for (in cōclusion) the wormes can but poyson them, and they murder them, so that bothe of them do worke all one effe••te whiche is death.
LN 0609 *. It is a true saiyng▪ preuent the worste and the best shall saue it self.
LN 0618 *. Here the aucthour renueth his storie and setteth out the operation of the Irishe grounde, whiche neither breedeth nor yet fostereth vp in it any venimous beastes or wormes.
LN 0635 *. Irelande tyme past, had store of all kinde of wormes, serpents, and venimous beasts if fables be scriptures.
LN 0643 *. Doubtfull obiectiōs, whether processe of tyme, or the power of Gods abbollished the serpentes out of Irelande.
LN 0661 *. Emongest sondrie suppositions a very likely hoode, opening the tyme of the wormes exylement.
LN 0673 *. The aucthour yeelds his verdict and opinion, in this pretie tale.
LN 0687 *. Good counsell neuer yet hurted ye receiuer.
LN 0691 *. Mars cōfirmeth Appolloes saiyng, verif•yng his greate wisedome, showing reason why they should exempt feare.
LN 0699 *. The reason truly set doune, for the abollyshyng of feare.
LN 0707 *. Bloodie Mars ouertwharteth Appollo, annichillating his reasons, giuyng contrarie counsell to the confusion of the enemie.
LN 0711 *. Apollo contendyng with Mars, manifesteth his notable wisdome in waiyng the royall estate.
LN 0725 *. The deuice of Apollo is here most excellēt, who opens a meane to saue both men and money.
LN 0737 *. Mars addicted onely to slauter gensaithe Apolloes counsell, obiectyng, it to bee voyde of wisedomes forecast, not hauyng regarde to causalties that might ensue.
LN 0749 *. Mars showeth reason, why the Gods should reiecte Apolloes counsell, he sets out the whole rabble of ill beastes bred in the lande.
LN 0767 *. Mars makes here his conclusion.
LN 0771 *. Apollo confu•eth Mars and his Marshall reasons beyng once experimented in the misteries of diuinitie hauyng fore knowledge of Iupiters entent and purpose.
LN 0793 *. It appeares by this, that Apollo was first deuisour of the woodkarnes glibbe and mantell.
LN 0797 *. Mars conuicted by reason, concludes with Apollo.
LN 0801 *. Iupiter to Mars in Apolloes praise, rate••yng, that Apollo had respecte, to daungers as well extant, as to those that might after followe.
LN 0827 *. The order of the Irishe kar•es apparel, is here allowed by Iupiter beyng first found out by Apollo.
LN 0835 *. It is agreed vpon, by consent of the Gods, that Woodkarne shall weare glibbed heds, signifiyng their monstrous mallice, irefull hartes, and bloodie hands, which moste stricktly they to this daie doe obserue.
LN 0845 *. The Irishe man, contrarie to the former allegations prescisly saieth that sainct Patritke expulsed the venimous beasts out of Irelande, for whiche thei haue hym at this daie in greate addoration.
LN 0853 *. A renuyng againe of the historie.
LN 0859 *. Greate store of wolues in Irelande.
LN 0861 *. Irelande replenished with all kinde of necessarie and profitable cattell.
LN 0877 *. Plentie of all kinde of wilde foule in Irelande whatsoeuer maie be named.
LN 0885 *. Irelande hath great store of Hawkes 〈◊〉 in it.
LN 0891 *. The names of the Hawkes that are bred in Ireland with their estemations orderly whiche are in nomber seuen.
LN 0909 *. The Irishe Hawkes peerles, for speedines of wing.
LN 0913 *. Many Eagles in Irelande.
LN 0929 *. The olde saiyng is here founde true, that like loueth like.
LN 0939 *. By pollicie brute beastes are brought to a peaceable order of liuyng, seruyng and obaiyng man orderly in their nature and kinde, yea the very foules of the ayre and beastes of the fielde, haue a certaine kinde of reuerence and feare, towardes those whom they consider doe worke them any good, but onely these monsters of the worlde, these pernicious members of Sathan, these wretched wretches haue no consideration, nor yet beare any kindly affection towardes (her Maiestie) whose mercie doeth preserue them, whose gracious fauour doeth protect them, whose royaltie not only wisheth them good, but also doth them good, not for a day, a weeke, a moneth, or a yeare, but continually, for if her Grace would their subuertion, if then she had but saide the worde onely, iudge what had followed (euen vtter desolation) which thing, these blinde Idi•ts doe not or at least will not see or consider, O ingratitude moste intollerable, and blindnesse irrecuperable.
LN 0951 *. No pollicie, wisedom or cunnyng, scarce al•reth the wilde Wodkarnes croked nature.
LN 0955 *. In steede of ciuillitie, Woodkarne vse villanie.
LN 0957 *. The felicitie, that Irishe karne do most of all reioyce in.
LN 0963 *. The sowe returnes to the mire, and the dog to his vomite againe.
LN 0969 *. This hath been to well proued true in these late daies.
LN 0971 *. An exclamation vppon Sainct Patrick, chief Sainct in Irelande.
LN 0983 *. Irishe k•rne more hurtfull then Serpentes.
LN 0987 *. Sainct Patrickes preachynges, could neuer bring Woodkarne to holly perfection of life.
LN 0993 *. Sainct Patricke is here excused, who doutlesse tooke great paine and labour, if it had been possible to haue made Woodkarne be come religious Sainctes.
LN 0999 *. No strength maie preuaile whom God doeth withstande, no phisicke can cure, whom God in his ire striketh, showing that God hath giuen vp Woodkarne to a reprobate sence infectyng them also with an incurable botche.
LN 1007 *. Signifiyng it is mere madnesse to striue against the lorde god. Irelande hath no Pyes breeding in i•.
LN 1013 *. Better it were to haue Pyes thē prowlers.
LN 1017 *. Where Irishe karne haue superioritie, ther thei commit all thinges to fire and sword, as house, corne, and cattell, men, women and children.
LN 1025 *. By murderyng, spoylyng and burnyng, Woodkarne hope to come to heauen, but it must be by a ha•ter.
LN 1027 *. By murderyng, spoylyng and burnyng, Woodkarne hope to come to heauen, but it must be by a ha•ter.
LN 1029 *. The glorie of Irelande wholy extinguisht, through Irish karnes liuyng.
LN 1033 *. An exclamation drawen from the depth of the harte, wherein the aucthour seemeth to bewaile the deformation of the lande by or through the liues of these rebellious Woodkarne.
LN 1035 *. Irishe karne brutisher then beastes.
LN 1039 *. No men more gracelesse then Woodkarne, none greater foes to their country, nor yet any that reioyce more in vnhappinesse then they.
LN 1043 *. Woodkarnes armes artificially displaide.
LN 1046 *. Woodkarne of all creatures least regardeth vertue, beyng giuen wholy to wicked sensualitie and lust, they are of least credite vnder heauen a notable commendaiton.
LN 1049 *. Gods grace must support where man can doe no good.
LN 1055 *. Sir Henry Sidneys indeuour in reducyng of Irelande.
LN 1058 *. Two thynges practised by Sir Henry Sidney, drawyng the Irishrie to a conformitie of good liuyng, that is to saie, iudgement and mercie.
LN 1065 *. Sir Henries care, wisedome and pollicie, could not bryng the Woodkarne to a better order and conformitie of liuyng.
LN 1069 *. Marke here the obstinacie of these wodkarne whiche by how muche le•itie they are better vsed ordered, and gouerned, by so muche the more wilfulnesse, frowardnesse and stubbornesse, they are a••enated, and enstranged frō all good discipline, and loyall obedience, a moste euident signe and token of an vntowarde generation.
LN 1095 *. A reasonable request to be graunted in consideration of the paines.