LN 064 *. The discription of the Irishman, aswell of the Lordes, as of the galliglasse and horseboy fully set out.
LN 075 *. The Irishe Karnes apparell moste liuely set out.
LN 068 *. Woodkarnes manners are more strau•ger then his apparell.
LN 106 *. The fruite sheweth the goodnesse of the tree, approuyng all Woodkarne, strong theeues for to bee.
LN 109 *. Irishe Rebbelles feare neither god nor man.
LN 112 *. The hautie hartes of Woodkarne desire rule dome, but they shall haue a rope.
LN 115 *. The Rebbelles enuie towarde a good Subiecte, whereto many be ioyned, the affection of a pernicious Papist, towarde a true Christian.
LN 118 *. Marke the moste pestilent nature of the wilde villanous Woodkarne.
LN 120 *. Woodkarne are •s Grashoppers, and Catterpillers to their countrey, and people.
LN 126 *. The ioye of rebbelles is in plagyng of true men.
LN 131 *. Spoyling and bur∣nyng is the Irishe karnes renoune.
LN 135 *. Woodkarnes exercises when true men take rest, to robbe burne and murder, when true men take rest, with fire sworde and axcesse, these tra•ters are preste, thei take no compassion of men children nor wiues, but ioye when they doe them, depriue of their liues.
LN 145 *. Irishe karne seldome leaue any thyng worth the bearyng awaie behinde them, but either thei take it or els do set it on fire.
LN 153 *. The stolne p•ore Cowe must be knocked doune as sone as they come home, to make the theeues a feaste.
LN 157 *. The woodkarnes Cookes.
LN 160 *. Bread seldomly vsed amongst Wodkar•e▪
LN 165 *. Maister and man all one at eatyng of meat
LN 169 *. A moste perfecte discription of Irishe hors boyes eatyng their meate.
LN 178 *. The rudenesse of hors boyes is herein set open, who fill them with driffe draffe, farwell the good token.
LN 182 *. Beholde here the difference twixt Karne and their men, the Karne haue the best meate, the hors boyes eate then, of inmeates and puddings, which to lucke is imputed, their lippes with greene onytment beyng fouly poluted.
LN 190 *. The very order of the wilde Irish, their sittyng, table, dishes, and cushens discribed O braue swinishe fashion founde our emongst hogges. Deseruyng for maners to sitt amongst dogges.
LN 203 *. The order of Wodkarne is to haue a Frier blesse hym and all his housholde before he sits doune.
LN 205 *. Irishe Karne euery yeare once or twise peraduenture make exchaunge of their wiues, as thei like thē so will thei keepe thē, for thei will not be bounde to them.
LN 215 *. Friers haue chiefest and hiest roomes at feastes amongst the Irishrie, and why should not we giue them like honour at the gallowes.
LN 220 *. Like vnto like saide the Deuill to the Collier.
LN 224 *. A Foyner of three quarters of a yarde long, is the Woodkarnes knife.
LN 232 *. The Irishe mans drinke.
LN 234 *. A thyng of necessitie proued to be phisicke, hauyng his confirmation vpon the othe of a periured caitiffe Karne.
LN 242 *. Vskebeaghe, is Aquanite.
LN 250 *. The Woodthiues loue mirth after meate.
LN 253 *. A Barde and a Rimer is all one.
LN 254 *. The Barde by his Rimes hath as great force emongst Woodkarne to perswade, as the elloquent oration of a learned Oratour emongest the ciuill people.
LN 261 *. The pollicie of the Barde to encense the Rebelles to doe mischefe, by repeating then forfathers actes, O craftie Appostle as holy as a Deuill.
LN 267 *. Marke how apte and prone these theeues are to doe mischiefe, in whiche is verified the saiyng that is witten, like as the father is, suche is the sonne, knaue father and knaue sonne, to the twentie generation.
LN 275 *. A wicked man neuer wants ill counsell.
LN 277 *. The Frier perswades the Rebels that it is an high worke of charitie, to kill loyall Subiectes, which thyng they beleeue though neuer founde on scripture, O ghostly Frier as inno∣cent as Iudas.
LN 284 *. Beholde the plaguy counsell of a pockie Frier, the very fruite of Papistrie.
LN 286 *. This flatteryng Frier promiseth to the Rebels euerlasting life, if they per¦ceiuer in rebellyng against the (Queene.)
LN 296 *. The ende of the Friers oration, is the beginnyng of rebellion, he is a sharpe spurre to make them gallop hedlong to all kinde of mischiefes, and last to the gallowes and deuill of hell.
LN 302 *. The Karne go forth with the Friers bles∣syng to spoyle loyall subiecttes, but looke what enseweth.
LN 307 *. Whom the Frier doth blesse, them doth God curse, bringyng their wicked purposes to a wonderfull ende.
LN 315 *. The praie is recouered to the Rebels damage.
LN 317 *. Sweet• meate must haue sowre sauce.
LN 323 *. As a notable Rebell had in his life tyme greater dignitie then many of like profession, so beyng dead, his head receiues a more stately place of exaltation.
LN 330 *. Suche Astronomers God sende vs enough daily.
LN 332 *. Now God be thanked hedlesse Woodkarne are not to bee feared, fortune goeth beionde their expectations, which bryngeth Rebels with all their reuels to shame and dishonour.
LN 340 *. The Frier mournes for the losse of his poore Woodkarne, he curseth as blacke as pitch their oppressors.
LN 344 *. The kindnesse of the Frier towardes the Rebelles after their death, by purchasyng their pardons, with booke, bell, and candell, whiche thyng artificially the knaue doth handell.
LN 351 *. A notable question whiche demaundes, if pardones frō Rome, maie bryng damned soules from hell.
LN 357 *. Friers perswasions cause Rebelies still to perseuer in rebellion, O blinde fooles, to beleeue all that Papisticall Monkishe momes tell you to bee Scripture, when in the ende they seeke your vtter destruction and desolation.
LN 365 *. The Friers in Irelande, are chiefest instrumentes of Irishe disturbaunce, they are the onely spurre to pricke them onward to rebell against the Queene, procuryng the meanes of their vtter distruction, beyng the hed welspring of all sinne and wickednesse.
LN 377 *. Rebelles bewitched or deluded by sathan, measure not their owne estate by other mens harmes, or calamities, but still marche forwarde in the pursute of sinne, till they come to like ende of destruction.
LN 386 *. As by obaiyng the Prince, there springeth rest, peace, and tranquilitie, so, in displeasing her Grace, groweth trouble, vexation, confusion, and death.
LN 391 *. The Karne goe still on in their malice, gro¦wyng from pettie fellonie to maine treason.
LN 394 *. They boste of their manhood.
LN 396 *. They vowe, the Englishe hostes destruction.
LN 399 *. The successe of reachlesse enterprises.
LN 401 *. The celeritie of Sir Henry Sidney, to encounter with the Rebelles.
LN 405 *. The noble stomacke of the Captaines described.
LN 409 *. The courage of the Souldiers liuely expressed, who had ra∣ther then their liues be vpon the Iackets of these fif kyng and shippyng Rebelles.
LN 414 *. Recommendation of the good subiectes of Irelande, their fidelitie, loyaltie, and seruice to their Prince is described.
LN 420 *. The dai• of ••ttai•e is appointed, if wodkarne will abide it.
LN 423 *. In this is manifestly proued how the Lord Deputie attempteth nothyng vnaduisedly, either in rearyng vp of warr or in puttyng it doune, whereby the Irishrie might finde any occasion of rebellion, or cause to rebell, for beyng come into the fielde in hostill araie, yet before he soundeth to the battaile, mercifully allureth them to submitte them selues to the Queenes good Grace, who refusing this offer, fallyng vpon them, showeth no mer∣cie or compassion, whose eye doeth neither pitie them, nor yet his hande spare them, but like a most seuere warrier, executeth the function and office appertaing to warre
LN 441 *. The marche of the Irishry and their notable bragges beyng farre from their enemies, wherein they discouer openly their couragious dasterly hartes.
LN 449 *. The stately courage of the Rebelles, is sone put doune, at sight of our Princes hoste.
LN 453 *. Feare a suppresser of the sturdiest Rebels harte.
LN 455 *. The order of the Irishe warre is plainly set out, who leauyng the order of battaile raye, beyng neare the combat, fall into a cluster, therein they suppose their saftie to consist•, makyng a moste terrible noyse of criyng to terrifie (if it were possible) the whole hoste of Englishe men.
LN 474 *. Uauntyng Woodkarne doe first giue backe.
LN 481 *. Under these 〈◊〉 tytles, the valure of all our English Captaines are expressed.
LN 491 *. O Souldiers of renowne shielde you from mischaunce, whiche doe in spight of Irishe karne, your Countries praise aduaunce.
LN 496 *. Woodkarne must needes sweate, for their labour is great.
LN 498 *. The piper seyng the Karne to haue the worste ende of the staffe, doe lull the Irishe retreate.
LN 502 *. Commendations worthie of right, to be long to our Englishe Captaines, who neuer shrincketh, but with greate valure and manhood tarieth the finall ende of the battaile.
LN 513 *. No daunger ought to be eschewed, nor labour refused, in the defendyng our prince and Countries cause.
LN 519 *. The gelousie of a Prince deuoureth like the flames of fire.
LN 523 *. The anger of a prince ceaseth not til he hath brought his purpose to perfection.
LN 529 *. The Irishe Karnes hartes now more and more doe faint.
LN 533 *. Irishe Woodkarne had rather fli• then fight, and good reason they haue so to do, for who would take blowes if he can shun them.
LN 541 *. Marke Traiters in the midst of battaile is no place to repent.
LN 542 *. A notable question that demaundes, if the repentaunce of • vile catrife, and rebellious Wodkarne, maie satisfie the Iniuries committed against our Queene.
LN 550 *. A similitude of the Lyon.
LN 554 *. The Princes pleasure put in execution by Sir Henry Sidney.
LN 560 *. Bygour is meetest where clemencie auaileth not.
LN 564 *. That whiche is doen by compulsion, is no go•ama•cie.
LN 567 *. Iustice and fortitude yeeldes Rebels their hire.
LN 571 *. The Souldiers wrecke their anger and displeasure vpon the poore Irish karne without all pitie.
LN 574 *. O harde harted men that takes pitie of none.
LN 577 *. Woodkarne abides the brunt of fortune.
LN 581 *. Irishe Karne fight with their heeles with greater courage, then with their handes.
LN 583 *. The piper and his bagpipe laide bothe flatte on the grounde.
LN 587 *. The Woodkarnes legges must helpe them when handes will not serue them.
LN 591 *. Uery good counsell giuen to the remnant of Woodkarne, warnyng them how they doe attempt any thing preiudicall to the honour of the Crowne.
LN 597 *. As the Lyon is feared, and reuerenced of all the beastes in the Forrest, so ought • King to be feared and loued of his subiectes within his Realme.
LN 604 *. The rewarde of Rebellion is death.
LN 608 *. A cauiat for Woodkarne.
LN 612 *. Good reason that the Asses calamity should make the Foxe to be ware.
LN 619 *. The corde that rebellion did binde, maie not be loused by any meanes, but by the ingen of death.
LN 624 *. The Irishe Karnes crie.
LN 628 *. The remnaunt of the vnslaine Wodkarne, doe parte take the Bogges, and other some the Wood.
LN 633 *. Irishe coltes are tamed by the snaffie of warre.
LN 637 *. Englishe men returne Conquerers
LN 645 *. Sir Henry Sidney is worthely renowmd for prudence and magnanimitie.
LN 649 *. Peace commeth of warre.
LN 651 *. A Godly praier that Irelande ought to vse.





