SIG H2r I Rorie Ogge,* inhabitaunt of Leasse,
A rebell false, against my (soueraine quene)
I loue debate, expellyng godlie peace,
I lead my life, in Boggs and thickets grene,
What mortall wight, my cōpere then hath seene,
Whiche of ye lorde nor prince doeth stand in awe,
Nor passe not for, the rigour of the Lawe.
My harte is bent,* to eurie kinde of ill,
Whose outward deedes, doe well relate thesame
I loue the thyng, supporter of my will,
I spoile and burne, thereby t'encrease my fame,
Thus by suche actes, I gotten haue a name.
Euen traitour false, that neuer shall decaie,
Nor bee extinct, by any kinde of waie.
I vilaine vile, and craftie as the Foxe,
*Yea like the Wolfe, whiche doeth extortion vse,
I falser am, then theef that pickes the lockes,
In deulishe sorte, my self I so abuse:
(My noble Queene) for cheef I doe refuse,
Whose roiall name, doeth mounte vnto the skie,
And curie where, is in ancthoritie.
What maie displease,* her princly roiall grace,
(I like a theef) doe put the same in vre,
Her highnesse Lawes, I daiely doe deface,
SIG H2v
And through ye same, her heauie wrath procure:
Thus Sathan he, my sences doeth allure,
Who makes them thrall, to serue his appetite,
So that in nought, but synne I doe delight.
She would me good, if I would loyall bee,
But my ill happe, and crewell Destinie,
In parte or whole, that thyng forbiddeth me,
Till Ize constrainde, through Sidneis pollicie:
Her mightie hande, perforce to testifie,
Prostratyng me, before her fearfull Lawe,
Though of the same, I stoode not erst in awe.
*And forste perforce, God knowes what doth remain
But cruel plages, for my desartes are iust,
Suche is the meede, whiche eurie Rebell gaine,
That doeth pursue, the chase of ragyng luste:
O carelesse Karne, O Rebell false to truste,
*O Rorie Ogge, thrice cursed maie I be,
Who mou'de to wrath, the queens high maiestie
Wo *maie I be, for mouyng her to Ire,
The M. woes, through which my soule possesse
In eche respect, surpasse the flames of fire,
I languishe still, but hopelesse of redresse:
My wicked life, I needes must now confesse,
Through which I feele, euē liue ye pāges of hell,
*That neither penne, nor tongue of man can tell.
SIG H3r
I am expelde,* from crewe of honest men,
None but my mates, me traitour maie abide,
As for the good, thei hunte me now and then,
From wooddes to Boggs, beset on eurie side:
And where that I, so euer am espide,
There waight is laied, to catche my sillie soule,
And with the axe, to shorte me by the poule.
Whiche thyng to taste, I well deserued haue,
*Since freedome once, was offerde vnto me,
Vaine is the gift, that's profferde to a knaue,
Who nought estemes, his Princes elemencie:
O Rebell cause, of all thy miserie,
Which mightest haue had, remission of thy sinne,
What, greater gaine, supposedst thou to winne.
O happlesse wight, refusyng Princes grace,
*O dismalle daie, wherein I it denide,
O peruerse harte, that couldste not it imbrace,
But like a theef, suche courtesie denide:
O brutishe beast, who doeth not now deride,
The vauntyng harte, asspiryng ouer hye,
Whose haughtie thoughts, did match ye rouling skye.
But true it is, that Fatall letters saie,
Who takes no tyme,* when as the same is lent,
And holde it faste, hym self thereby to staie,
Whom if it passe, the crooked waie it went:
He maie not finde, the Tauerne, House or tent,
Though them to seeke, he spendeth daie & night
And all because, he helde not when he might.
SIG H3v
*Euen so alas, when noble Sidney he,
My pardon sent, for faltes I did comit,
Though there I saw, eche crime forgiuen to be,
I not contente, with chat his pardon yet:
Let passe the same, as gifte for me vnfit,
Whiche to reuert, now lyes not in my might,
For God & time, haue wrought me this dispight
*Now do I seke, though sekyng nought preuaile
Faine would I finde, the fauour of my Prince,
But craft serues not, that stately forte to scaile,
For well she knowes, my subtill hartes pretence
Who hath a tyme, the same to recompence,
As semeth good, vnto her royall grace.
For God and tyme,* bid Iustice to take place.
And Iustice she, sendes forthe her warlike crew,
With sondrie spies, my haunte for to disclose,
Who connyngly poore Rories tracte doe vewe,
Relatyng it vnto his mortall foes:
As nought is lefte, wherein he maie repose,
Mōgest all his dēnes a bulwarke for his health
Nor yet a ho•e, to shroude his gotten stealth.
*Like greedie haukes, pursuyng faste their praie,
All fullie bent, the same for to deuoure,
And as the Night, the Orientall daie,
Doeth captiue make, by his externall powre:
So time from time, small distance frō an howre,
Pursude I am and brought to suche a baie,
As I expecte, nought but my dismall daie.
SIG H4r
Sir Henry now,* who gouernes Irishe soyle,
Hath made an othe, to breuiate my daies,
Whose stratagemes, haue giuen me suche a foile
As all the lande, soundes out his noble praise:
For he it is, that breaketh doune my staies,
And who but he might Rorie ouerthrowe,
Though Mars hmself, had sworne my mortal fo.
Who might haue tane,* out of my bloodie hande,
Whom by my sleightes, I captiue made to bee,
That Marshall knight, and captain of a bande,
No second one, (excepte againe twere he:
In fine twas he, whiche made of bondmen free,
And put to sworde,* for my vnstable truthe,
My spoused wife, the garlande of my youth.
With many mo, my deare and speciall frends,*
Whose brethlesse corps, wer giuē to flams of fire
Good cause had I, to waile their lucklesse ends,
Though Ioue agreed, to yeeld them suche a hire:
O heauie plague, to moue the heauens to Ire,
Through whose outrage, ye iust oft suffers pain
To cause the reste, from wicked actes refraine.
And I my self, in daunger of my life,
Rounde compaste then,* by men of worthie fame,
Sought out to shift, how to escape the knife:
That readie was, my courage for to tame,
Whiche when that I, well pondred had thesame
I tooke good harte, it stoode me then vpon,
And leapt me forthe, tyme wilde I should be gō.
SIG H4v
*Now with that leape, I got me quight awaie
Moste ioyous that, I skaped had the trappe,
My leggs were good, to vow that thing I maie
Whiche set me free, that tide from that mishappe
Not ouer free, for one gaue me a rappe,
Whiche thing I sweare, did pinche me to ye hart,
The blowe was greate, & came so ouerthwart.
*But scape I did, so muche the more their greef,
And got me soone, into an other denne,
None fledde with me, but one poore onely theef,
As for the reste, thei were saluted then,
That instant tyme, were xvi. of my men,
Put to the sworde, in cabbande where wee laie,
O my ill happe, but happie theirs I saie.
Emongest them all, one auncient aged sire,
Whose councels I, eche while did well alowe,
Though old he was, yet pearcyng as the fire,
A craftie Foxe, as any liueth now:
Was murdered then, by chance I wot not how
Whose crewell fall, giuen by the sisters three,
Alas, alas, full sore disquiets me.
*For whilste he liu'de, my harte possest his lust,
And lust enioyde, what so it could inuent:
But since the poste, whereon my hope did trust,
Receu'de his dome, by warriours fearce assent,
Like thraldomes slaue, I sithens haue been pēt.
*In easlesse holde, not wittyng what to doe,
Or what were beste, to put my self vnto.
SIG I1r
My men wer slain,* which onely wer my staie,
My wife through whom, I often gat releef,
My frēdes which brought, to Rorie daie by daie
The stolen horse, the Mutton and the Beef,
Which thinges to wāt, who holds it not a greef?
Yea suche a plague, as aucthours tell to me,
That to a man, no greater plague can be.
Loe first the woe,* my soule doeth ouer quell,
Behold ye straight, whereto I now am brought,
Marke well the place, where caitife I do dwell,
As eke the knight, this alteration wrought,
Then shall you se, if throughly you haue sought
The perfect waie, that leadeth to the hall:
Where are the plagues, on Rorie Ogge shall fal.
For Sidney now,* that thrice (renowmed knight,)
T'augment the fame, and seruice of his (queene)
Stands out in feeld, by sworde to trie her right:
(Whose valiant hart, like to the Laurell greene,
For courage stoute, and prudence mixt betwene,
Is had in Price) renowmed for the same,
Through Irishe soile, wt trompe of happie fame
He sondrie waies,* doeth aggrauate my smart,
He he I saie, hath wrought me sore anoye,
His wisedomes skill, hath daūted sore my hart:
And my attemptes, doeth vtterly, destroye,
He daie from daie, his accious doeth imploye,
False Rories daies, to breuiate with speede:
Because that he, so vile a life doe leede.
SIG I1v
*His Marshall knightes, & expert men of warre,
By hym are sent, to put the same in vre,
Who me of all, my freedome doe debarre:
Whereby I maie, not long their force endure,
But force no force, since I did so procure.
Bothe heauen and yearth, to be my mortall foe:
If in their rage, thei Rorie ouerthrowe.
Beholde a Starre, apparant in the Weste,
*Whose fierie streames, I finde by learned skill,
Betokeneth peace, tranquilitie, and reste,
When M Ms & Cs, to serue false Rories will,
Debarde shalbe, for thereof come the ill.
Or if that H. had seru'de his Queene a right,
Long sithens R. had been extirped quight.
*When H. doth well, to deale with double hande
Els from his kinde, he should degenerate.
But if that S. his sleight did vnderstande,
H. should be turnde, augmenter of debate,
In little space, vnto a vi•er state,
*Though yet not spide, he goeth vncorrected:
Whiche is the botche, wherewith R. is infected.
*Like as that house, whereon hym self to staie,
Hath sondrie postes, by workmen fastned sure,
With eurie puffe, maie not be blowne awaie:
So long as thei in linked state endure,
Euen so my self, I doe you all assure,
Shall scarce betrapt wt Fortunes fatall chaūce
Whilst frendes wt aide, my mischeef do aduaūce.
SIG I2r
But postes remou'de, the house sone hath a fall,
And buildyng goeth,* with violence to wracke,
No parte maie stande, the rofe nor yet the wall:
When as the same, his vnderstaies doeth lacke,
Euen so my self, nowhit could holde out tacke.
Excepte that I had vnderpropped been:
By hym or them, that seme frends to the queene.
Whiche if thei were,* frō Rorie once remou'de,
Who would misdoubt, ye peace that should ensue
This by his like, the wise hath often prou'de:
As now by me, it maie bee holden true,
If that the cause,* whereon the Phistoll grewe,
Had first been tane, from pacient cleane awaie:
No Phistoll then had sprouted there I saie.
But as a part,* is silde through fatall chaunce,
Or by the sleight, of Sidneys prudent skill,
So in good tyme, the rest shall trace that daūce:
Whiche hetherto, haue seru'de my wicked will,
And since that thei, haue nourst me in myne ill.
Thei shall receiue, with me for their rewarde:
Aguerdon due, long since of Ioue preparde.
That tyme drawes nye,* and howre is at hande,
In whiche the cept, of my rebellyng race,
Shall be extirpt, and bolishte cleane the lande:
(For God hym self, doe sitte in iudgement place)
To Iudge I saie, with Iustice now the case.
Whiche tyme from tyme, hath euer been defard:
So that the right, at no tyme could bee heard.
SIG I2v
*Lo lo I see, in Mowers crewell hande,
A fearfull Sithe, whiche doeth prognosticate,
Both here & there, throughout this Irishe lande
That growth of things, are at their ripned state
Whiche must be cropt, by Sithe of dismall fate.
For God and tyme, hath sworne by sacred othe:
That Reede & huske, shall suffer penance bothe.
It is at hande, for feelds declare the same,
The date is out, and tyme appointed spent,
And reapman now, the vanter to reclame:
*In Irefull rage, from mightie Ioue is sent,
Whose message thus, vnto me doeth present.
Affirmyng R. to come to desolation:
And his supporters, to suffer like destruction.
Then men shall walke, vpon the moūtaines hie,
*And feare nowhit, the Tyger, Wolfe, nor Beare
The Kids shall slepe, with Leopard quietly:
And yet nowhit, his fearfull visage feare,
For why? no cause, of tremblyng shall be there.
When as the thing, whereof thei were afraied:
Shall be by sworde, and crewell conquest laied.
*Thē H. & S. through whō this peace doth spring,
For his desartes, shall crouned sitte with Fame,
And ouer that, whiche is a better thyng:
He shall possesse, an euerlastyng name,
Emongest the iuste, that well deserue the same.
And though ye tyme, shall turne his corps to clay
Yet shall his name, still florishe as the Baye.
SIG I3r
Lo you that liue,* and I that soone shall dye,
Beholde I saie, the salerie for synne,
Now let my cause, teache other impes to flye:
From treasons lure, lest stipende like thei winne,
For though tis long, ere Iustice cometh in.
Yet when it comes, it paieth once for all:
And suffreth plages, by heapes on plages to fall.
FINIS.