LN 001 *. Rorie Ogg showeth he•e the Countie where∣in he dwelleth, and his naturall inclination, whereunto he is addicted.
LN 008 *. Marke where vnto this Rebelles harte is bent, (that is to saie) to all kind of mischiefe, sinne and wickednesse.
LN 016 *. Rorie in accusing hym self, is not to be iudged of other, for here he showeth that he is as craftie as a Foxe, an extortioner like the Wolfe, falser then a theef, and a traiter to the Queene, in whiche I beleue hym, though he neue• swore for the matter.
LN 022 *. Rory Ogge go∣yng forwarde in the settyng out of his dispositiō telleth that he doeth all this kind of mischefe of set purpose a∣gainst ye queene, who notwith∣standyng, laieth al the blame and falte vpon the Deuill.
LN 037 *. In this he manifesteth the great goodnesse of the Queene, whose mercie is daily extended towardes those whiche are willyng to yeelde to the obseruation of her statutes and lawes, but he in no wise maie yeeld ther∣to, till by compulsion he bee constrained.
LN 042 *. Rory Ogg beyng compelde to acknowledge ye great aucthority of the Prince, is therfore worthie of small godamercie.
LN 044 *. Where Rorie bid the three curses light vpon him, I wish hym for euery one twentie (sauyng my charitie.)
LN 050 *. A good note for Rebelles, Marks the effecte, of rebellion, and wherevnto it driueth this wretched Roge, euen to the brincke of desperation, who as he saieth beyng yet aliue, feeleth moste apparantly the tormentes of hell, and here it is proued true, that a mans owne conscience is better then a thousande witnesses.
LN 052 *. There be two sortes of people on earth, knaues and honest men, whereon I gather that Rorie Ogge being ba∣nished the companie of honest men, must be entertained of his like e•uall com∣paniōs, (who as him self saith) is daily pursued of the good in moste wofull sorte.
LN 060 *. Rorie is here 〈◊〉 very penitent persone, whiche cōfesseth his life to haue deserued death, which refused the princes pardone once offered hym.
LN 067 *. Here Rorie Ogge taketh on with himself for refusing the pardone, & acknowledgeth hym self an asse, and a beast in deniyng the same.
LN 074 *. Rorie calleth to memorie the sa•ing that is written, tyme beyng once past, is not easely cald back, whereby we are lea••ed to take the tyme present whilst it is of••red.
LN 081 *. He verifieth and approueth the aboue saiyng by hym self, whiche reiectyng grace beyng offered, now seeketh after it, but maie not haue it, though with weeping he doth request it.
LN 088 *. Rorie Ogge sheweth for pardone, but maie not obtaine it, for Princes by Rebels will not be deluded.
LN 094 *. Rorie Ogg seyng hym self enuironed on euery side with enemies, manifesteth his miserie, showing not one craftie hose or •enne to be free from the knowledge of ye Lord deputie, but that he hath intelli∣gēce and knowledge of it.
LN 102 *. Rorie sheweth how spitefull greedie, the English Captanes and Souldiers are in chasyng and hūting him.
LN 110 *. Rorie acknowledgeth ye Lorde Deputies notable wisedome, onely to haue brought hym to this miserie.
LN 117 *. He proueth his affirmation by a moste manifest example, whiche was brought at that time to pas
LN 122 *. Rorie Oges wife is slaine.
LN 124 *. Rories frend•s to the nomber of sixtene are saine in a cabbin, beyng in a Wood of the Englishe men, and after warde the cabbin beyng set on fire, all their bodies are burned also.
LN 132 *. Rorie Ogg beyng at that tyme in the foresaied cabbin, with those that were killed hardly escapeth, though not without a good knocke of a halbert vpon his costarde.
LN 139 *. To leape well is very necessarie sometyme, as appeareth here by Rorie Ogge.
LN 146 *. Rorie here showeth that the Englishe men, were very sory for his escape out of the cabbin, and from their handes. This happines is to be referred to the Englishe men, whose chaunce was to kill those rebellious knaues. Rorie Ogge especially doth be waile the death of one S•aue Macke Rorie Reagh aboue ye rest that were slaine at ye tyme.
LN 160 *. Here he setteth out ye cause why he so •eploreth his destenie.
LN 165 *. Rorie Ogge being be reaued of his counsellers, is all moste out of his wittes.
LN 168 *. When Rebels lacke fawterers and helpers, thē fall they to miserie.
LN 175 *. The first steppe to Rories miserie.
LN 182 *. The Lord Deputie is in armour against Rorie Ogge, whose fame is spread vniuersaly through out the Realme of Irelande.
LN 189 *. Sir Henry Sidney encreaseth Rorie Oges miserie, and worketh his subuersion by his notable industerie.
LN 197 * Souldiers are sent out to put in practise, the Lord Deputies purpose. <P> Rorie plaieth the Astronomer this starre was sene from Dublin south west, by whiche blasyng starre, Rorie Oge coniectures his speedy fall, whiche accordyngly hapned. By these enis and cees, are ment the Mores and Comores Rories cheefe frendes.
LN 205 *. This H. doeth signifie, how Macke Shaue whiche is Rorie Oges father in lawe.
LN 211 *. This is a true and good cōfession of Rorie Oge, vttered in his extremitie. Rorie Oge is in his similitudes vp to the harde eares, prouyng with manifest arguments, vnlesse he had been bolstered vp by his saide father in lawe and his frendes, it had been vnpossible that he should haue continued so long vnexecuted or taken.
LN 216 * <MISSING FROM TCP>
LN 218 * <MISSING FROM TCP>
LN 227 *. Marke here Rories reasone, whiche speaketh by experience.
LN 233 *. Gods blessyng haste thou good Rorie for speakyng the truthe.
LN 237 *. Rorie Ogge taketh vpon hym here, to haue skill in Phisick.
LN 240 *. As the Lorde Deputie abbridged the daies of some of Rorie Oges fosterers in this his visitation, so he prophesteth of the ende of the rest of his said frendes together with hym self.
LN 247 *. Rorie seeth by some secret waie that his prophesie is at hande, ready to be performed, and so muche the more he is certaine of it, because he doeth see Sir Henry Sidney bent wholy to his destruction.
LN 255 *. Rorie Ogge t•keth this sithe to be the sworde of Iustice, which the Lord Deputie hath plucked out of the sheath onely to do execution vpon all transgressors.
LN 265 *. The Harolde of death is sent to Rorie Oge, certainly to make manifest, his ruine and fall.
LN 270 *. The peace is discribed that shall be after the death of Rorie Oge.
LN 276  *. The Lord Deputie in prosecuting his purpose against Rorie Oge, & through procurement of the saide Rories fall, deserueth euerlastyng remembraunce, with all good & famous men.
LN 284 *. Rorie Oge maketh here his conclusion, and giueth forthe a good exhortatiō to all men, councelyng them to eschewe and flee treasons, and showeth though sinnes be for a while let go vnpunished, yet at length they are recompensed at full.