SIG K1r IF sillie beastes,* long pent in droopyng stale,
Or if the Harte, sore pincht with chillyng cold,
No meruaile ioyes, to see the Sommer fale,
Through whiche the plantes, kept doune in massie hold
Their fragrāt sētes, & beauties maie vnfold.
Or if the Larcke, when cloudes are paste awaye,
Te deum synges, to see the Sunnie daie.
Why should not man, the highest firmament,
Whose thoughtes did pearce, where Ioue resplēdent sit
Whose outward shape, the same doth represent:
As nexte extende, for his forecastyng witte,
To whom alone, he onely doeth committe.
The vastall worlde, with ruledome of the same:
The fishe in Seas, and beastes on lande to tame.
Reioyce I saie, vnbounde from thousande cares,
From greef of minde, with sorowes ouer preste,
From sighing sobbs, far fetcht with trillyng teares
From heapes of cares, clos'de vp in pantyng breste,
From euery thing, that might gainsaie his reste.
And now in place, and steade of suche anoye:
To reape at full, his long expected ioye.
This ioye at full, I meane my Princes grace,
SIG K1v
*The chefest wealth, that subiectes can require,
A learned iudge, to soile eche doubtfull case:
As readiest waie whereby men maie aspire,
To honours seate, from youth whiche all desire.
A perelesse pearle, estemeed more worth then golde:
And more o• price, then Diamonds to be solde.
A tower of strength, and forte of Fortitude,
*A Samson strong to riue the gates a sonder,
A mightie Sea, that lande from lande exclude:
A doubtie Mars, whiche Nations bringeth vnder,
A seconde Ioue, that worketh mickle wonder.
A passyng st•rne, to guide mans Shipp a right:
A pleasant feeld, and gardeine of delight.
O who can tell, expressyng eurie parte,
*The xceedyng ioye, that loyall Subiects winne,
Or who can shewe, the thrice redoundyng smarte:
That reachlesse liues, to rebells bringeth in,
Whiche make things seem, as though thade neuer bin,
(O pear•e of price) to honour Princes Lawes:
Of healthe and wealthe, the sole and onely cause.
*Who so did taste, once of that Sugred life,
And reape the fruite, that spryngeth of the same,
Bi't wildest Karn•, b'it infant child or wife:
Wearte fearrest foe, by conquest worthie fame,
Weart-Macke, or O. Macke deuil weart by name
I thinke if grace, did them conduct a right.
Theilde no exchange, though change at will thei might
SIG K2r
If happe to change,* the change for worser parte,
As triall tells, eche where in Irishe soile,
In reachlesse change, things light ouerth warte•
For though the foe, in treasons feelde domoile,
Yet dreades he sore, eche while to get tho foile.
And though for once, he passeth by the trappe:
Yet at the length, in pantell he shall happe.
Yea though their straightes,* hard fortune to expell
Are hundred Karnes preparde at all assaies,
Yet eurie Rushe, their haughtie hartes doeth quell:
As whicly winde, their courage sore alaies,
Thus feare them daunt, by 1000. kinde of waies.
Thei feare to see, the shiu'ryng of the daie:
Thei feare as faste, when it is paste awaie.
Thus feare eche while,* enuironth traitors minde,
And cares againe, to sheeld them from mischance,
Thei are disturbde, at eurie puffe of winde:
The dusked cloudes, which ouer them do glaunce,
Thei saie foreshewes, some sodaine fatall chaunce.
And often tymes, the shaddowe of a tree:
Makes them beleeue, a bande of men to see.
Suche feare turmoiles,* the sturdest of them all,
Suche feare I saie, eche Rebell doeth retaine,
Suche feare I vowe, vpon the beste doeth fall:
Suche feare I sweare, the chefest foe doeth paine,
Suche feare againe, in loftest harte remaine.
And though suche feare, doeth ouerwhelme their hartes,
Yet cease thei not, to plaie disloiall partes.
SIG K2v
*Suche plaie maie well, be counted fooles game,
For none but fooles, therein doe take delight,
Iuste was the cause, whereof it helde the name:
As eke a curste, that brought it first to light,
In steade of foode, to glutte mans appetite.
And bande are all, in Citie, Feeld or Toune:
That holde suche plaie, against the royall croune.
*But bleste are thei, that doe refuse the same,
And trebble blest, that loue their Prince a right,
Blest shall he bee, whiche pretermittes that game:
Yea bleste I saie, bothe mornyng and at night,
Bleste shall he bee, whiche hath his whole delight.
In good attemptes, and furdryng Princ's cause:
Conductyng hym, by tenour of her Lawes.
*My Princes freende, I vowe my self to bee,
And loyall eke, vnto her noble grace,
A freende to her, a freende likewise to me:
As tyme shall trie, the vtmoste of her case,
And who that seekes, her honour to deface.
I doe protest, by all my force and might:
My blood to gage, but Ile maintaine her right.
*In Princes cause, my hande shall strike ye stroke,
And who that dare, her Cepter to defame,
As he that will, not yet againe reuoke:
By Marshall actes, that persone Ile reclame,
And make hym yeeld, submission to her name.
Yea though he were, a seconde Mars I vowe:
Ile make hym stoope, to breake, to bende, or bowe.
SIG K3r
Fewe Scottes in North (if Quene will haue it so)
Shall there abide,* the grounde for to manure,
Excepte that thei, their homage yeeld her to:
Auowyng eke, their fealtie to endure,
Conioynyng it, with compliments moste sure.
Not one I saie (if Queene will me supporte)
Shall there possesse, one castell toune or forte.
Since I haue reapte, the thyng I did desire,
And wonne at laste, the fauour of the croune,
My harte is set, as twere in flames of fire:
By seruice iuste,* t'augmene her greate renowne,
Whiche shall appeare, by Rebells pluckyng doune.
Withstandyng thē, that shall withstande her right:
In midste of feelde, (I vow'de it to her knight.)
Let them beware,* that border nere my holde,
In any case, how thei their liues doe leede,
For with an othe, to vowe I maie be bolde:
If to their cuttes, thei take not better heede,
In harte and minde, I fullie am agreed.
The beste to quell,* (that shall molest her grace:)
Demissyng them, from honour, life, and place.
But *those that leade, a faithfull subiectes life,
I their defence, doe put my self to bee,
Supportyng them, in eurie kinde of strife:
Defendyng them, from cruell tyrannie,
By waie I saie, of noble cheualrie.
And whereas I, maie doe them any good:
For Princes sake, Ile hazarde life and blood.
FINIS.