LN 001 *. If beastes whiche haue no vnderstandyng, doe reioyce at winters departyng, and at the comming in of sommer, (the encreaser of their delightes) much more ought that man, who beyng long without the princes fauour, and kept in disgrace, be trebble ioyous, (receiued at length to mercie and fauour)
LN 024 *. The fauour of the prince is an inestimable treasure to that subiect which hath it, surmountyng 〈◊〉 and preacious stones.
LN 031 *. This setteth out most liuely in sondrie, formes and fasho•es, 〈◊〉 what a thing the fauor and grace of our Queene is.
LN 038 *. The happie estate and condition of good subiects, is with out all comparisons.
LN 044 *. In deede, I think if there were any grace at al in hym, whiche is once brought to be a subiecte, he maie not lightly be turned to be a Rebel again.
LN 052 *. Truly the condition of Rebelles in Irelande is very ticklish, and their chaunces very harde, as in this part• is discribed.
LN 059 *. A most plain and true discription of Rebelles timeros•rie.
LN 066 *. Feare euery while and where, troubleth the Rebell, waking, sleepyng, and at all tymes and seasons.
LN 073 *. The traiter that thinketh hym self in moste securitie, is often tymes brought into greatest perplexitie, such an horrible thing is treasone.
LN 081 *. •ebellion is • very foolish plaie and pastyme, and moste foolish is he, that f•••eth his hart and stomack with treason as if it were with moste holsome meat
LN 088 *. Those that liue well, and loue well their Prince, is euery wher counted happie & blessed.
LN 095 *. This is the protestation of O Neale to the Lorde Deputie.
LN 102 *. This is largely profferd of hym.
LN 111 *. O Neale promiseth to expell al Scots out of the North of Irelande, if the Queenes Maiestie would but giue hym ayde, or if her grace would haue it so.
LN 120 *. Meanyng Sir Henry Sidney, to whom O Neale made like protestation.
LN 124 *. An admonition to the enhabitantes and borderers neare to the North
LN 129 *. O Neale promiseth not onely to be a scourdge to the euill liuers and disturbers of her Maiesties people, but also a frende and helper of her good subiectes to the vttermost of his powre.
LN 131 <EMPTY ON TCP>