!<SIG L1r>!
WHilste feare ioynde wt hope,* liege people retaine,
A feare to offende, the Prince or her lawe,
And hope for desartes, suche goodnesse to gaine:
As shall be imposde, to the line they drawe,
Whilste one vprightly, twixt these standes in awe.
He dreades no turbulent stormes that maie chaūce
For tyme trieth falshood, the trothe to aduaunce.
But feare expulsed, clene out of the mynde,
Not waiyng Iustice,* detectour of sinne:
And hope of correction, which subiectes doth binde,
Their liues for to leade, the statutes within,
Are lightly extende, when rancour beginne,
To plaie her pagent, as wily she can:
She spoyleth wholy, the nature of man.
Procuryng enuie,* grudge, strife, and debate,
Anger, and malice, bothe fit for the turne,
Dissimulation, a principall mate:
That other vices, doeth neately adorne,
Holdyng them smouldryng, and neuer to burne,
Till tyme descries it, detectyng the treason:
Whiche then is maintainde, by colour of reason.
Aledgyng reason,* suche folly to couer,
Though treason not reason, is chefest pretence,
Thus whilste in malice, the Rebell doeth houer:
!<SIG L1v>! Raising a powre, to be his defence,
To subiectes disquiet, the Realme and the Prince,
Good God what reason, iste then to defende,
The thyng that treason, is founde in the ende?
*But man addicted, to fancie and will,
Forced by Sathan, to followe his luste,
Regardes not the cause, be it good or ill:
For whiche in hazarde, his life he doeth thruste,
He passe not a myte, b'it iust, or vniust:
For as the Pooke leades hym, so forward he must:
Not ceasing till bayarde, laith hym in the dust.
*He nought forcasteth, enflamed with yre,
At last what guerdon, false treason awarde,
Nor yet diserneth, through passyng desire:
What plagues for traitours, ye law hath preparde,
But ronnyng forwarde, not hauing regarde,
To thinges before hym, or after ensewe:
He sone possesse, what for treasone is dewe.
*Although for a tyme, dame fortune doeth smile,
Fauryng moste frendly, the thing set abroche,
Whose craftie suggestions, compact in a wise,
At last bringes the Rebell, to shame and reproche,
Deludyng his rashnesse, that darde to encroche,
So muche on fortune, abusing her wheele:
That leaste puffe of winde, doeth make for to reele.
What here is spoken, a thousande haue tride,
Who maie be triall, the truth will declare,
!<SIG L2r>! The course of fortune,* thei likewise haue spide,
As how she seketh, but people to snare:
To snarle and intangle, with sorowe and care,
And they thus hampred, from them to flie,
Suffryng those captiues, in fetters to lie.
Yet she forsakes not,* still men in their neede,
But sometyme faureth, their hardlesse distresse,
As who that listeth, in stories to reede,
Shall see how frendly, she seekes their release,
Though for no true loue, yet more to encrease,
The plague of vengeaunce, that after ensewe,
(A stipende iustly, to traitours b'yng dewe)
These thinges to confirme, I Rorie am he,
Who sometyme mounted,* a lofte in the Skie,
And fortune castyng, a fauour to me:
Prouoked me higher, and higher to flie,
Thus like an Eagle, I neastled on hie,
Full little thinkyng, againe to descende:
Or that my glorie, would euer haue ende.
In all my actions,* moste happie successe,
Dame Fortune, euer alotted to me,
For what I mynded, in harte to suppresse:
The same accomplisht, she caused to bee,
Thus will and fortune, did euer agree,
Whiche thing espied, puft vp with aspiraunce:
I stoode with Sir Henrie, alas at defiaunce.
Muche like a champion, addicted to warre,
SIG L2v
*Tyme seruyng fitly, to anger my foes,
I somm•nde a nomber, of neighbours from farre:
Twice eightie persones, the beste I could chose,
For manhood, and sleightes, in whom to repose,
I might in saftie, my life and my lande:
No dasterdes nor shrincklinges, but those yt would stande.
*With these I marched, from place vnto place,
With these I troubled bothe Uillage and Toune,
With these in one night, I fired the Nace:
With these my Recisters, I spoylde of renoune,
With these I made many a Castell come doune,
With these I yeelded, augmentyng my fame:
The people to sworde, and houses to flame.
With these I wasted, the Countie of Lease,
The places likewise, that bordred it nye,
*I made from tillage, the Farmors to cease:
I made them gladly, awaie for to flye,
Inuityng them nightly, with a freshe supplye,
Giuyng my woodkarne, their states to maintaine
The fruite that growed, of other mens paine.
But God detestyng, this horrible life,
*Might not of Iustice, permit me furder,
To rage in suche furie, delightyng in strife:
Contemnyng vertue, addicted to murder,
His Iustice, and Iudgment, meetyng together,
For my demenure, since wilfull I swarued:
Awarded me death, long sithence desarued.
SIG L3r
And here I lye groulyng, poore wretch on ye groūd
Spoylde of the Iewell,* I cheefly loued,
Thus God of Iustice, doeth traitours confounde:
When from their sinnes, thaile not be remoued,
With shame and confusion, I now am reproued,
My hed from the bodie, parted in twaine:
Is set on the Castell, a signe to remaine.
All men that heare this, take warnyng by me,*
Least that ye fall, in like predicament,
The arte of treason, see likewise ye flee:
Wisely forecastyng, whereto ye consent,
Against the Croune royall, doe nothyng attempt,
For if against it, ye falyng at odde:
Doe feele as I felt, the strength of the rodde.
FINIS.